# NeuralSonic - 23.04


## What I did
In this part I started making the AI. It uses RL (Reinforcement Learning to train itself), PPO algorithm. When the AI is spawned in the Level it doesn't know anything - it has to learn how to play. There's a reward - for example if AI collects rings (some points) it gets a positive reward, but if the AI hits an obstacle (in this case spikes) or dies it gets a negative reward. That way it learns what's good and what's not. 

### Downloading Godot RL Agents plugin
First of all I downloaded and added the Godot RL Agents addon/plugin from here https://github.com/edbeeching/godot_rl_agents. It is the connection between Godot Game Engline and the Python scripts for the AI training. 

### AI version 1 - the simplest
Then I started with a simple reward function and a simple script in train.py. I added AI controller node to the player, which controls the AI with a script. There are 4 options for the AI - to stay (0), to move forward (1), to move backward (-1) or to jump. When the user entered that they want to play the game in "AI mode" the script for the AI controller is activated, if the user's in "Player mode" the AI controller is disabled, so the user can control the player. 

### Testing AI and finding bugs
So when I tested the AI I saw that it got confused very quickly, because the goal was to collect more and more rings - the AI got the hightest reward if it collected more rings. The second problem was that it decided to go for example some steps forward and then backward and it didn't get any progress.


### Solutions:
- Removing the backward movement
- Adding the goal to be not to collect more and more rings, but to finish the level, to finish the game
- Making the AI to be trained on my GPU, not CPU (faster)

That way the AI started training itself faster and it didn't care if it had rings or not - it just had to go to the goal. The reward for reaching the goal was updated to be very high. I decided to remove all the animations when AI is being trained, because it was slow. I also added one simple training level to test if the AI will complete it - and it did!

### AI USAGE:
- I used Claude AI and Chat GPT for parts of the code in the game, because I wasn't really familiar with GDScript (well I learned a lot of things :) )
- Python script and functions written by me